		0.		CONTENTS

		1.		WELCOME TO SYLLABLE
		2.		SOFTWARE
		2.1.		INSTALLING NATIVE SOFTWARE
		2.2.		INSTALLING NON-NATIVE SOFTWARE
		3.		THE COMMUNITY
		3.1.		SYLLABLE.ORG
		3.2.		MAILING LISTS
		3.3.		AZAKA
		3.4.		KAMIDAKE
		3.5.		THE WIKI
		4.		DEVELOPING FOR SYLLABLE



		1. WELCOME TO SYLLABLE

Thank you for installing Syllable, on the most exciting Open Source Operating
Systems today!  Syllable has been in constant development for many years, and
offers a compact, fast, well designed and easy to use Operating System.  Unlike
many other Open Source Operating Systems Syllable has only one goal; to be the
best Open Source Operating System on your desktop computer.

Syllable already offers internet and multi-media capabilities and if you're
interesting in developing software for Syllable there is a unique and exciting
design waiting for you.

Whatever you want to do, this short document is here to help you with your new
Syllable installation and offers some pointers to further information.



		2. SOFTWARE

Syllable is designed as a modern desktop Operating System, and has a unique
design which makes managing software easy.

We separate software for Syllable into two category's.  Software which has been
written for Syllable, using methods unique to Syllable, are known as "Native"
software.  Syllable is also capable of running software which has been
designed for more traditional UNIX style Operating Systems such as Linux, which
is known as "Non-native" software.

Because non-native software can not take advantage of the advanced features
Syllable offers, installing such software differs from the way in which you
install native Syllable software.  Instructions on how to install both native
and non-native software for Syllable are described below.  You should choose
the correct method depending on the type of software you are installing.



		2.1. INSTALLING NATIVE SOFTWARE

Applications which have been written for Syllable can be installed anywhere
you wish, although the usual location is in the /Applications directory.  Most
applications come as a single archive, which can be unpacked wherever you wish
to install the software.  For example, if we wanted to install the ABrowse web
browser:

	$ tar -xzvpf abrowse-0.3.4.bin.1.tar.gz -C /Applications

You can then add a new shortcut to the application in the Dock or Launcher, if
you wish.

Uninstalling such software is equally simple.  Just delete the application
directory:

	$ rm -r /Applications/ABrowse



		2.2. INSTALLING NON-NATIVE SOFTWARE

Unix or POSIX style applications usually come as a single archive which
contains all of the files the application needs in one self contained
distribution.  To install a package you simply open an ATerm, log in as
the root user if you are not already, and unpack the archive with a command
such as:

	$ tar -xvpzf binutils-2.14.bin.1.tgz -C /usr/

Then you must run the Syllable package manager tool to register the package
with the system. For example, to install binutils, run:

	$ pkgmanager -a /usr/binutils

This will make a bunch of symbolic links in various subdirectories of
/atheos/autolnk/ to make it possible for the system to find executables and
other files belonging to the package.

If you want to uninstall the package you must run the package manager
again to allow Syllable to properly and cleanly update itself.  For example,
to uninstall Binutils:

	$ pkgmanager -r /usr/binutils

You can then delete the actual package directory itself:

	$ rm -r /usr/binutils

Please note that this way of installing software should ONLY BE USED
FOR COMMAND LINE APPLICATIONS AND APPLICATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN PORTED
TO SYLLABLE FROM UNIX AND OTHER OS's USING A UNIX LIKE FILESYSTEM. Native
applications should use the various mechanism available in Syllable for
making the application "position independent" so it can be installed
anywhere.  See section 2.1 for more information.



		3. THE COMMUNITY

Syllable has a lively and vibrant community which has built up around it over
the years.  Our users and developers are friendly and helpful.  There are many
websites which are dedicated to Syllable.  There are also several Syllable
mailing lists, which are almost always busy and are a great way to keep in touch
with other Syllable users and developers.



		3.1. SYLLABLE.ORG

		http://www.syllable.org

Syllable.org is the official website for Syllable.  News and announcements are
regularly posted.  The on line forums are lively and full of useful information and
interesting discussions.  The official Frequently Asked Questions can be found there.
Last but not least you can also find the latest official software downloads!



		3.2. MAILING LISTS

		http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/syllable-developer
		http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/syllable-announce

If there is one thing any Syllable user should do, it is subscribe to the
Syllable-Developer mailing list!  Don't be put off by the name; you don't need to
be a developer to join the list.  The list is busy, with an average of 20 messages
a day, but it is interesting and informative.  If you have a problem and need an
answer quick, the Syllable-Developer mailing list is the place to ask.  Everyone
is friendly and helpful, so please join in!

If you're just interested in new releases and important announcements concerning
Syllable you can subscribe to the Syllable-Announce mailing list.  This list is
read-only and is only used to announce new releases of Syllable.



		3.3. AZAKA

		http://azaka.nutus.com.ar

Azaka is a list of hardware which is known to work (Or not!) with Syllable.  Once
you have installed Syllable on your computer, please take a few moments to check
if your hardware is already listed.  If you have hardware which is not listed on
Azaka please add it to the list, wether it works, or not!  Not only will you help
future users but the Syllable developers can also use Azaka to find popular but
currently unsupported hardware.    



		3.4. KAMIDAKE

		http://kamidake.other-space.com

Kamidake is one of the longest running Syllable websites.  At Kamidake you can find
software developed for Syllable, from simple shell scripts to complete applications
and games.  Kamidake is a "must see" website for any Syllable user!



		3.5. THE WIKI

		http://www.syllable-wiki.tk

The Wiki is an effort to organise the thoughts of the developers and users of Syllable
in one place.  The Wiki is used to track ideas and progress regarding Syllable.  The
Wiki is now largely "static", but if you're interesting in where Syllable is going the
Wiki will answer many of your questions.



		4. DEVELOPING FOR SYLLABLE

Syllable is still under heavy development, and there is plenty of opportunity for
anybody who is interesting in developing software for Syllable or working on
Syllable itself.

Syllable is a POSIX complaint Operating System, with large parts of POSIX 1, 2 and
4 available.  Above the POSIX layer Syllable has a unique set of C++ API's which
provide utility classes, a Graphical User Interface, high level I/O and networking
components which can all take advantage of the advanced design of Syllable.

The development toolchain is based on the usual GNU tools such as Binutils, GCC 3
and Make.  Several editors and IDE's are available for Syllable, which can be found
on Syllable software websites such as Kamidake (See section 3.4 for more information)

Many POSIX, UNIX and Linux command-line applications can be easily ported to Syllable,
but Syllable does not use X nor any X toolkits.  Porting graphical applications from
other platforms requires a native Syllable GUI to be written.

The majority of the Syllable kernel and POSIX systems are licensed under the GNU
General Public Licence.  The Syllable C++ libraries are licenced under the GNU Lesser
General Public License.

If you're interested in developing with Syllable you should join the Syllable-Developer
mailing list (See section 3.2).  The source code for Syllable is available via.
anonymous CVS at anonymous:pserver@cvs.syllable.sourceforge.net/cvsroot/syllable  You
can also browse the CVS repository at http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/syllable/
